Lagos, Nigeria Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Nigeria’s government has extended a land border closure with neighbouring countries until at least the end of January 2020. Officially aimed at cracking down on cross-border smuggling, partial restrictions were first imposed at the border with Benin in August, with a full and indefinite closure confirmed in October. The shutdown continues Nigeria’s ambivalent relationship with the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). It comes just three months after the country signed up to the deal, following a year long delay due to reservations about its benefits. Having Africa’s biggest economy on board was seen as an important milestone for the AfCFTA. Trading under the agreement is due to start in July 2020, with the goal of transforming regional trade by unifying Africa’s 54 countries into a single market, worth up to $3 trillion. It’s a tall order. In addition to the complex task of trade negotiations, issues such as insufficient infrastructure, a lack of human capital, and poor trade facilitation must be overcome for meaningful implementation. Without strong and consistent political support – especially in big economies – it’s hard to see this happening. Nigeria’s decision to close its borders, showing little regard for the impact on regional trade, shows how fleeting this can be. It’s a reminder that the hard work of realising Africa’s free trade dream is just starting. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent More than 50 Malian soldiers have been killed in an attack by Islamist militants near the country’s border with Niger, the latest in a series of escalating attacks in the restive Sahel. This comes amid growing concerns about instability in the region, and stalling counter-terror efforts. More: Al Jazeera Kenya’s biggest mobile operator Safaricom and South Africa’s Vodacom are planning a joint bid for one of two telecoms licences to be offered by Ethiopia next year. The country is opening up the sector, Africa’s last big untapped mobile market, as part of plans to liberalise its state-led economy. More: Reuters The global perspective Sudan’s transitional government has reportedly agreed a roadmap with the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and African Development Bank to rehabilitate its struggling economy, part of efforts to re-engage with international donors following the ousting of longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir in April. The government has said this will include structural reforms, without providing details. More: Reuters Pirates off the coast of Benin in West Africa have kidnapped nine crew members from a cargo ship belonging to Norwegian shipping company J. J. Ugland. Piracy in West Africa’s Gulf of Guinea has spiked in recent years, despite a decrease globally. More: CNN Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 