 Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  African economies need urgent action to boost domestic resource mobilisation. This is according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Revenue Statistics in Africa 2019 report, released this week. The average tax-to-GDP ratio of the 26 countries covered by the report stood at just 17.2% in 2017, the lowest globally. To put this into context, 15% is considered the minimum needed for basic state functioning, never mind meeting financing needs to drive economic development. The ratio has remained unchanged for three years, while non-tax revenues – primarily from royalties on natural resources – have actually declined, and are below tax revenues in all but three of the 26 countries covered. The 17.2% figure also masks wide variation. While the Seychelles has a tax-to-GDP ratio of 31.5%, Nigeria – Africa’s biggest economy – sits at the bottom with an abysmal 5.7%. It goes without saying that this needs to change if rising deficits and soaring debt across the region are to be reined in. Against this backdrop the International Monetary Fund has rightly called domestic resource mobilisation one of sub-Saharan Africa’s “most pressing” policy challenges. Meeting this will require sustained political commitment and improved governance to tackle core issues like income taxes and improved value added tax systems. On current evidence, this is in short supply. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Nigeria’s former attorney general, Mohammed Adoke, has been arrested by authorities in Dubai on a warrant by Nigeria’s anti-corruption agency relating to the $1.3 billion sale of an offshore oilfield in 2011. The purchase of OPL 245 by Shell and Eni is the subject of a major corruption trial underway in Italy. More: Al Jazeera Angola has issued a $3 billion Eurobond, with 10- and 30- year tranches offering yields of 8% and 9.125% respectively. This adds to a growing debt burden in Africa’s second-biggest oil producer, where the debt-to-GDP ratio stood at 89% in 2018. More: Financial Times The global perspective France on Wednesday accused Saudi Arabia of failing to deliver on a December 2017 pledge to provide around €100 million to the G5 Sahel task force, aimed at countering Islamist militancy in Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Chad, and Mauritania. Instability in West Africa’s Sahel has soared, with international efforts to curb violence hamstrung by lack of funding and poor coordination. More: Reuters UN Secretary-General António Guterres has urged African governments to formulate “green and clean” industrialisation strategies to help meet the growing need for climate change adaptation and mitigation on the continent. Despite contributing the least to global emissions, Africa is experiencing some of the worst effects from climate change. More: UN News Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 