Sudan’s capital Khartoum Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Sudan needs $5 billion in budget support to avoid economic collapse, and has enough foreign currency reserves for just a few weeks, finance minister Ibrahim Elbadawi has warned. This comes less than two months since the formation of a transitional government, following the ousting of longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir in April. It’s a good reminder that the need to fix Sudan’s economy, which played an important role in fueling mass protests this year, remains. In the months before Bashir’s removal inflation hit 70%, with the currency losing 85% in value. The unravelling has been coming since the country lost the bulk of its oil reserves when South Sudan seceded in 2011, exposing a lack of structural reform and economic diversification. With the economy expected to contract by 2.6% this year, the country’s transitional leaders have no time to waste – especially after months of negotiations in which few paid any attention to the economy. They seem to know it. Talks have ramped up to re-engage with international donors, and the critical task of getting Khartoum removed from the U. list of state sponsors of terrorism, while fundamental reforms have been promised. Delivering on this, in addition to a host of social and political issues that must also be addressed, won’t be easy. Sudan’s honeymoon period is already over. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Nigeria’s Dangote Group has announced plans to invest $2 billion in a phosphate processing project in Togo, aimed at producing up to 1 million tonnes of fertiliser a year using facilities in Nigeria. The company is also setting up a $60 million cement plant in the country, due to start operations by the end of 2020. More: Business Day Cameroon has set February 9, 2020 as the date for legislative and municipal elections. The vote comes against the backdrop of a political crisis in the West African country, driven by growing opposition to longtime ruler Paul Biya, in power for 37 years. More: Africanews The global perspective France is reportedly looking to provide financial support to South Africa’s state-owned power utility Eskom. This would likely come in the form of a multi-partner loan that could include other countries like Germany and South African development banks, according to France’s ambassador to the country. More: News24 Visa is reportedly paying $200 million for a 20% stake in Nigeria-based digital payments and commerce firm Interswitch. Details of the transaction could be announced this week. More: Sky News Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 