An open-air market in Kinshasa, DRC Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on Monday announced a new government, eight months after opposition leader Félix Tshisekedi was declared the winner of a landmark presidential election. Three quarters of cabinet members are first-timers – but what should be the culmination of the mineral-rich country’s first democratic power transfer is really the rubber stamping of an apparent backroom deal between Tshisekedi and his predecessor Joseph Kabila. The ‘coalition’ government follows months of negotiations between their respective parties, and sees the latter’s Common Front for Congo (FCC) take control of almost two-thirds of cabinet posts. This includes the office of the prime minister, and the mining ministry. It’s a big win for Kabila, who has seamlessly gone from pariah and obstacle to progress, to valued partner in a democratic government. International criticism of his rule – defined by a legacy of cronyism and mismanagement – has given way to indifference. Having hinted at plans to contest the presidency again in 2023, the stage is set for business as usual. Bad news for Africa’s fourth most populous nation, which is estimated to be sitting on $24 trillion of largely untapped mineral wealth, but remains one of the world’s least developed countries. None of this should come as a surprise – the outcome has been obvious for months – but it should be met with disappointment. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Kenya on Monday exported its first crude oil shipment – 250,000 barrels – since discovering reserves estimated at 560m barrels in its northern Turkana region in 2012. Commercial development has been bogged down by regulatory uncertainty and disagreement over revenue sharing. More: Reuters The Africa Finance Corporation has approved a $230m loan for Nigerian telecoms firm 9mobile to help meet debt obligations and support a planned growth strategy. 9mobile, the country’s fourth largest mobile operator, runs assets formerly owned by Etisalat, which exited the market in 2017 after defaulting on its debt. More: Reuters The Global Perspective Angola has launched a month-long road show for mining concessions including exploration rights for diamonds, iron ore and phosphates in five provinces – part of efforts to boost international investment. Roadshows will be held in Luanda, Beijing, London, and Dubai. More: Africa Oil & Power The European Commission has pledged $55.9m in humanitarian aid to drought hit countries in the Horn of Africa, where 13m people are estimated to be in need of emergency food assistance. This comes amid rising hunger, much of it linked to climate change, across the continent. More: The East African Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.