Left to right: Mitchell Elegbe, Founder/GMD, Interswitch Group; Joseph Hurley, Snr. Vice President, Payment Services, Discover Financial Services; Francis Gbenga Shobo, Deputy Managing Director, First Bank; Olubusola Osilaja, Divisional Head, eBusiness, Access Bank; Martins Izuogbe, Divisional Head, Operations, Fidelity Bank; Diane Offereins, Executive Vice President, Payment Services, Discover; Chuma Ezirim, Group Executive, Retail & E-Business, First Bank; and Mike Ogbalu, Divisional CEO, Verve, at the Verve Global Card Launch in New York, on Monday. PRESS OFFICE: Verve Verve, a leading payments technology and card business in Africa, yesterday announced the formal launch of its Verve Global Card in partnership with Discover Network, providing a new solution that will give cardholders the ability to transact across 185 countries internationally and expand Verve’s existing suite of tailored payment products and solutions for its customers. The partnership with Discover Global Network, one the leading US card platforms, will facilitate new international and cross border transaction capabilities for Verve customers, meeting the needs of its increasingly global customer base. Holders of the new card can make payments outside Africa on platforms powered by Interswitch, Discover Network, Diners Club International and Pulse Network. This new product offering will greatly improve the ability and experience of Nigerian consumers to continue to transact when travelling internationally. Mitchell Elegbe, Interswitch Group Managing Director, commented on the announcement: “The partnership with Discover Network will enable Verve to compete with other global card offerings, providing cardholders with an enhanced customer experience when transacting globally outside Nigeria. Creating a solution which facilitates international payments for our consumers will help to eliminate existing barriers and simplify the process when transacting abroad.” Verve Global Card also delivers additional benefits to cardholders including high transaction completion rate and a broad reward and loyalty scheme; benefits that are available both locally and internationally. In addition to the new Verve Global Card solution, both companies will also look to explore opportunities to expand acceptance of other Verve products and solutions more broadly including the existing Verve, Discover and Diner Club cards. Diane Offereins, EVP Payment Services at Discover Financial, said: “We are excited to be partnering with Verve International for the launch of the new Verve Global Card. We look forward to working with their team, combining our experience in global payments with Verve’s technological innovation and extensive market presence across Africa. Through the partnership, we look to expand the acceptance of both our products, solutions and services to an international consumer base”. Mike Ogbalu III, Verve International Divisional Chief Executive Officer, also commented on the announcement saying, “The launch of the Verve Global Card, provides consumers with the ability to transact globally across the US and other countries, addressing challenges that many Nigerians have experienced while travelling abroad. Our partnership with Discover Global Network will help us to optimise the overall experience of every Verve Global card holder by guaranteeing consistent and efficient payment solutions regardless of where they are in the world”.