 Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Nigeria’s national oil company has said refurbishment work on its three state-owned oil refineries – currently operating well below their installed capacity of 445,000 barrels per day – is due to start in January 2020. The aim is to have them running at full capacity by 2022, part of government plans to end Nigeria’s reliance on fuel imports, despite being Africa’s biggest crude oil producer. This costs the country billions each year, contributing to rampant smuggling and regular fuel shortages. It’s an unsustainable drain on already stretched public finances, and a constraint on economic growth. Fixing the problem is overdue, but plans like this aren’t new. Successive governments have promised, and failed to tackle the issue. Could this time be different? Maybe. The newly appointed head of the notoriously opaque Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has pledged more transparency. Given the country’s poor record on oil sector reform few will get excited about this, but the government isn’t going it alone. There are efforts to involve the private sector, including plans for dozens of small, modular refineries. Then there’s a giant refinery being built by billionaire Aliko Dangote which, at full capacity (650,000 barrels per day), could single-handedly meet domestic demand. It will take longer than advertised, but some change in circumstances may be on the horizon. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent A military tribunal against senior figures linked to Algeria’s former president Abdelaziz Bouteflika, including his brother Saïd and former intelligence chief Mohamed Mediene, began proceedings on Monday. The high profile trial is part of efforts by the establishment to distance itself from Boutefklika, amid continued mass protests calling for meaningful political reform. More: France 24 South Africa’s biggest financial union has announced plans for a national banking strike involving up to 70,000 workers on Friday September 27 in protest of retrenchment plans and moves towards digitalisation in the sector. The strike action will be the biggest in decades, with banks urging customers to use digital channels to avoid disruption. More: Bloomberg The Global Perspective US oil and gas exploration company Kosmos Energy has said that new offshore gas discoveries in Senegal could be enough to consider a second liquefied natural gas (LNG) export plant in the West African Country. The company first discovered large gas reserves off the coast of Senegal and Mauritania in 2015. More: Reuters Sudan’s transitional government is seeking $2 billion in support from the World Bank as it looks to kick-start the country’s stalled economy. It has also announced plans for a nine-month stabilisation plan, to be launched in October. More: Reuters Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 