Casablanca, Morocco Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Morocco has agreed a partnership with Ctrip – China’s biggest online travel agency – part of a plan to attract more Chinese tourists. The country is hoping to boost arrivals from 180,000 in 2018 to 500,000, tapping into growing demand for travel to Africa from the world’s leading outbound market by expenditure in 2018 ($277 billion). This is fueling growth in Africa’s tourism sector. International arrivals grew by 8.6% in 2017 to 62.7 million – the fastest globally. Last year saw a 7% increase, with $38 billion in international tourism receipts. Encouraging, but Africa punches well below its weight – accounting for just 5% of international arrivals and 3% of receipts globally. Despite endless talk about the continent’s tourism potential, action is less forthcoming. Underdeveloped infrastructure, limited integration, insecurity, and a lack of policy incentives mean that many markets are effectively inaccessible to mainstream tourists. The numbers reflect this, with Morocco, Tunisia, Kenya, and South Africa accounting for almost half of international arrivals in 2018. This is also holding back intra-African tourism, which the UN estimates accounts for up to two thirds of arrivals in sub-Saharan Africa. There are hopes that initiatives like the much-hyped African Continental Free Trade Area, and the Single African Air Transport Market, will change this. Perhaps, if action beats words when it comes to implementing them. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Kenya’s Equity Group has announced plans to acquire a controlling stake in Democratic Republic of Congo’s Banqué Commerciale du Congo for an undisclosed cash sum. This is part of an Africa-wide expansion strategy by the lender, which focuses on low income customers. More: Reuters South Sudan’s president Salva Kiir and opposition leader Riek Machar held talks in the capital Juba on Monday aimed at restarting a stalled peace agreement signed in September 2018 to end a five-year civil war. The oil-rich country’s economy has been crippled by conflict since declaring independence from Sudan in 2011. More: Anadolu Agency The Global Perspective Egypt has said it plans to raise between $3 billion and $7 billion from international debt markets by June 2020. The government says this is aimed at shoring up economic reforms implemented under its three-year, $12 billion IMF programme, agreed in November 2016. More: Bloomberg A new report from the Global Commission on Adaptation, an initiative led by former UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, has called for $1.8 trillion to be invested into improving the global response to climate change by 2030, calling current efforts ‘gravely insufficient’. Funding should be prioritised for developing regions like Africa, which is widely considered to be the world’s most vulnerable to the effects of climate change. More: CGA Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 