Cairo, Egypt Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Thousands of Egyptians took to the streets in several cities across the country over the weekend in a rare show of dissent against the autocratic rule of president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. This follows viral social media videos by a former government contractor alleging high level corruption and calling for demonstrations. These may have been the catalyst, but there’s a bigger picture here. Egypt is about to complete a three-year, $12 billion IMF programme – the centrepiece of an ambitious economic reform programme. This has seen the government push through a raft of measures to boost foreign investment. By all accounts it’s been good for markets, with the likes of the IMF heaping praise on Cairo. Less has been said about how ordinary Egyptians have fared. An important part of reform has been harsh austerity, including subsidy cuts and the free-floating of the currency. This helped send inflation above 30% for much of 2016/17. With poverty estimated at 27.8% in 2015, the impact is unlikely to have been benign. Throughout this Egyptians have been suspiciously passive. The protests, while small, are a reminder that not all is well. And it looks like markets know it too. Egyptian stocks fell more than 5% on Sunday, the biggest drop since 2016. With calls for more protests this week, this is one to watch. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Nigeria’s national oil company has said refurbishment work on its three state-owned oil refineries – currently operating well below their installed capacity of 445,000 barrels per day – is due to start in January 2020. The aim is to have them running at full capacity by 2022, part of government plans to end Nigeria’s reliance on fuel imports, despite being Africa’s biggest crude oil producer. More: Reuters The Democratic Republic of Congo plans to introduce a second Ebola vaccine to combat a more than year-long outbreak, following the administration of a vaccine produced by US pharmaceutical giant Merck to more than 220,000 people. Authorities have not indicated when the vaccine, produced by Johnson & Johnson, will be deployed. More: Al Jazeera The Global Perspective Thirty-one African countries are among 41 globally in need of external food assistance according to new data from the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). This includes Nigeria, Kenya, and Ethiopia, amid worsening food security across the continent. More: FAO The United Nations’ Climate Action Summit 2019 takes place in New York today, where heads of state are expected to present ‘concrete’ plans to cut national emissions. US president Donald Trump is skipping the gathering, underlining the world’s second-biggest emitter’s waning interest in tackling climate change. More: UN Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 