 Delivered by DHL If you’re a startup looking to accelerate your way through the initial stages of business, getting accepted by an incubator could change the direction of your brand. But what are they, how do you apply, are they right for you? A business incubator is an organisation that helps early stage and startup companies to grow. Sometimes referred to as accelerators, they aim to expedite the development process for companies that are prepared to move quickly forwards. While they are typically located in a physical space, helping to foster relationships between fellow entrepreneurs and their respective teams, they may also exist virtually by providing online mentorship. The various services provided by incubators constitute what UKBI describes as a “highly flexible combination of business development processes, infrastructure and people”. Ranging from management training and expertise to a professional reception and parcel pickup spot, they aim to provide a one-stop shop for startups to operate their daily business from, removing the initial logistical headaches they would otherwise face. Selected businesses are required to pay rent at a below-market fee in exchange for these services, sharing the price of various overheads and operational costs with the other startups involved, thereby promoting collaboration among themselves. The other capital is provided by angel investors, venture capital firms, private companies and academic institutions, meaning businesses are then free to flourish with less financial worry. Despite being a relatively young concept, with Y Combinator being the first to launch in 2005, the International Business Incubation Association now numbers 1900 members across 60 nations. Each incubator is unique and will cater to a different type of company, which is something specialised businesses in particular must keep in mind when considering whether to apply. Seedcamp invests in European companies with a global outlook who plan to address real world issues using technology. By comparison 500 Startups prioritises diversity when considering applicants, meaning 44.5% of companies in their portfolio belong to racial minorities. Some global companies have also launched their own incubators to harness ideas that complement their own. Google’s in-house ‘Area 120’ aims to keep their top entrepreneurial talent from running astray, playing on the company’s famous policy for allowing employees to spend 20% of their time on side projects. Teams get to work on their idea for several months before pitching for additional funding, meaning they become a formalised company Google will invest in. You can browse a comprehensive list of incubators by visiting the National Business Incubation Association. You can also access specific information relevant to your sector by contacting your local economic development agency. You should also investigate academic institutions nearby, to see whether they offer their own programmes. As many incubators choose to serve local businesses predominantly, owing to their provision of a physical space which would otherwise require relocation, you should be prepared to move there permanently if applying from afar. This is because involvement with the incubator will ideally lead to local network development, meaning you must see the potential for your business to flourish there in the future. Other considerations include checking whether your business meets the incubator’s specific requirements. These may include certain milestones such as headcount and revenue, as well as background and product fit. Before you apply, you should research the programme’s alumni to see how they developed through the incubator. Remember to collect references from people at both ends of the success spectrum. It is vital that thorough research is conducted and you don’t simply move into the first one you find – getting involved with the wrong incubator will waste both time and valuable equity, which you cannot afford to lose at the early stages of your business’s life. Make sure your business plan has been fully fleshed out prior to application, with a condensed version ready for presentation to the screening committee. Incubators only want to accept businesses they feel they can grow and set up for success, and the most likely ones will be those that already have a clear idea of where they are headed. If you progress to the pitching stage, you should have a clear enough idea of your plan to differentiate you from other applicants. Having a firm grasp of your company’s finances will prove beneficial here and will also help you to fully utilise your incubator’s resources if you’re successful. It will also help if you experience difficulties. It’s also a wise move to consult a legal counsel or advisor before signing an incubator contract. Remember to make sure that you fully understand the obligations being placed upon your company, and also what you can expect to receive in return. While contracts typically come without a specified duration, and the average time spent in an incubator is between one to two years, the goal should be to leave sooner rather than later. This is because the very services they provide can become problematic, with constant mentorship proving tiresome, especially when it goes in an alternative direction to your plans. While your young business may be eager to learn and benefit from an incubator, such micromanaging can also be frustrating when you end up feeling watched as opposed to guided. Incubators are themselves a business, with the various investors pooling funds to set up the space. The staff provided have a vested interest in your company’s success but may not share your path to achieving it. Remember; incubators need you to make sure their business succeeds through you, so don’t feel you have to gratefully accept the first offer that comes along. So incubators, like all things related to starting your business, can cause problems as well as solve them – but there’s no doubt that they can be an enormous benefit to getting your project off the ground if you pick the one that’s a good fit for you. How do you actually get on one? Talking to the right people at the right time is a big part of it: read the business press avidly to find out what incubators are launching (they’re sometimes attached to funding rounds with big corporations) and make contact with as many incubator programmes as possible. This article was originally published by DHL.