Ovamba Solutions co-founders Marvin Cole (left) and Viola Llewellyn (right) Viola Llewellyn is the co-founder and the president of Ovamba Solutions, a US-based fintech company that provides micro, small and medium enterprises in Africa and the Middle East with microfinance through a mobile platform. The recent civil upheaval in Cameroon was incredibly difficult for us and for our customers. We had stopped pivoting and were ready to just go viral and scale. We had to balance caring for our customers, managing investor expectations, the uncertainty of the Cameroon government and our need to survive. What kept us going, actually thriving, was selecting the best customers and really committing to them. We explained to the investor world that Africa will go through turmoil when growth and change are on the horizon. We actually grew and exceeded our revenue goals and added an additional product line for customers. We can say that we are tempered for frontier markets in the truest sense. We are really proud of our staff and how they have rallied to the goal to build an alternative finance solution for the informal sector. Our staff brought their culture and understanding of Cameroon so keenly that we have truly become the leader as it relates to embedding culture into technology and business solutions. Tough one. Believing that everyone wants what we have to offer, from employees and customers to investors. It is a total liability to be so recklessly enthusiastic. It has often blinded me to some sobering realities, such as internal fraud, bad customers and misaligned investors. I am counterbalanced by my co-founder and guided by our mission, vision and values. I have learned to keep focus within the agreed parameters and not to allow my strong emotional responses to lead my reactions. I totally disagree with the idea of multitasking – it’s impossible. As a leader, I have to delegate and I have to prioritise. I can only focus on one thing at a time and it has to be the one thing that leads to the next thing in a plan. I have tried random business and it fails every time. I also disagree with the idea that entrepreneurs build companies with the end in mind. I hate talking about exits within the first few minutes of a meeting. Yes! I wish I had known that the best time to raise capital is right after you raise capital. A one-stop party and banquet service. Africans love to party but cannot keep time or provide reliable services – at least that is the case in Cameroon. I would build a huge box building that can be divided and expanded into different party rooms. I would have all the plates, cutlery, tables, chairs and décor available on site and rentable at a price per unit. This service would be available as an app for customers to plan their party with our resources. I would also have clothing, such as wedding dresses, tuxes black-tie outfits, available for rent and sale. There would be a large commercial kitchen and industrial washing machines on site. Food would not be late, as everything is on site. Printing services would be available for invitations. If not that then a school for domestic training for home help, domestic staff, babysitters and waitresses for banquets and catering events. They would be expertly trained and then sent on temporary assignments. This would be in response to the expanding middle class and the restriction on time that everyone is experiencing. The journey so far’ series is edited by Wilhelmina Maboja, with copy editing by Xolisa Phillip, and content production by Justin Probyn and Nelly Murungi.