Lagos, Nigeria With a South African mother and Nigerian father, I am in the fortunate position of being exposed to the best of both countries and cultures. As such, I can clearly envision the benefits of the two nations coming together and working towards shared common goals. South Africa and Nigeria each have rich cultures and a wealth of human talent, skills and resources in their own right. And both can only grow stronger and progress at a faster rate should these diverse nations join together to work towards mutual goals. The aim should be to leverage off each other’s strengths to benefit the African continent as a whole, instead of being threatened or being unduly critical of each other. The time has come to shed the straight-jackets of the past that are restricting forward-focused movement and collaboration of these two influential African countries. It’s long overdue for a major and widespread change of perspective – where Nigeria and South Africa view each other as African partners within the global community. This is not merely an aspirational view, but something that can start happening quite quickly and tangibly once both countries are open to driving a new era of collaboration and integration. This will kick off efforts to understanding the different cultural values, skills, assets, economic value and other positive elements by both countries. Some of the ways that these objectives can be practically achieved include the following: While there may be many challenges to overcome, with a united view and joint concerted effort by both countries, this vision is certainly attainable. It comes down to changing perceptions now and starting this progressive journey as soon as possible. The vast opportunities that exist in such a partnership await. And I, for one, simply cannot wait to see what’s in store for Africa in the near future. Nonye Mpho Omotola is the managing director of Africa Communications Media Group headquartered in Johannesburg. She sits on the Brand Africa counsel and is a respected advocate for economic growth, through innovation, technology and education in Africa.