 Press Office: Honoris United Universities Honoris United Universities (Honoris), the first private pan-African higher education network, has appointed a new independent Board Member and established the ‘Honoris Academic Council’ in an effort to boost the sharing of academic best practices and to develop a broad ‘employability agenda’ designed around entrepreneurial and workplace skills and credentials. Honoris Academic Council The Honoris Academic Council will lead the deployment of Honoris’ unique collaborative intelligence model through the co-ownership and sharing of skills and resources across member institutions within the network. The council will also direct a diverse range of programmes including international exchanges, collaborative projects as well as learning environments, physical and digital, enabling Honoris faculty and students to benefit from the sharing of ideas, real-world expertise, and multi-cultural immersion. Commenting, CEO of Honoris United Universities, Mr. Luis Lopez, said: “The Honoris Academic Council will drive our focus on enabling students to be agile, mobile and highly competitive professionals, with superior 21st century workplace skills. The Council’s work is an important investment in the development of world-class human capital that has the potential to transform Africa by equipping students with soft skills and digital capabilities – as well as real-world competencies – that will allow them to thrive in the ever-changing global
economy.” Members of the Honoris Academic Council include five representatives with exemplary backgrounds and extensive academic experience: The Academic Council’s mandates include the development of cutting-edge learning infrastructures and building
on existing ‘Honoris Spaces’ such as the Honoris Medical Simulation Center in Tunisia, the SmartiLab at EMSI
in Morocco, the iLeadLab at REGENT Business School and the future iTeachLAB at MANCOSA in South
Africa. The Council will also look for opportunities to further develop and expand faculties across the Honoris
network, as well as ensure existing faculties are employing the latest pedagogical approaches and learning
technologies.  New independent board member Honoris is reinforcing its Board of Directors through the appointment of a new Independent Board Member, Mr.
Karan Khemka, a global expert on education with over 20 years’ experience as an investor and consultant in
emerging markets. His appointment brings increased diversity into the network, with an experience that will
enrich the student and academic outcomes. Mr. Khemka is a distinguished speaker at international education
summits and is particularly recognised for his expert insight on the importance of international education in a
globalised economy. Commenting on his appointment, Mr. Khemka said: “I am delighted to be able to join Honoris United
Universities as a Board Member because of its focus on employability. This is a critical component in preparing
today’s graduates for the world of work – a world that whilst exciting, is more complex and challenging than
ever before. I’ve worked at all levels of education – including as an advisor to policy makers – and I look forward
to bringing my experience to bear in a way that really helps advance Honoris’ goals.” Mr. Khemka also founded the International Education Practice at The Parthenon Group (now EY-Parthenon),
in addition to Parthenon in Asia. He has advised on $6 billion of deals and over 250 CXO level strategy
engagements in the education sector across 40 countries and five continents, within every segment of education
from pre-K to K-12 to higher education. He has also advised governments and NGOs on improving education
outcomes around the world. About Honoris United Universities Honoris United Universities is the first private pan-African higher education network committed to preparing
and educating the next generation of African leaders and professionals able to impact regionally in a globalized
world. Collaborative intelligence, cultural agility and mobile mind-sets and skills are at the heart of Honoris’
vision of higher education. Honoris United Universities joins the expertise of its member institutions to prepare
pan-regional profile graduates that are competitive in today’s fast-paced and demanding labour markets.
Honoris United Universities gathers a community of 32,000 students on 58 campuses, learning centers and via
on-line, in 9 countries and 30 cities across Africa. The network counts 10 institutions: multidisciplinary
universities, specialized schools, technical and vocational institutes, contact, distance and online institutions. Students have an opportunity to experience exclusive partnerships and exchange programs in more than 60
universities across Europe and the United States. Over 100 degrees are offered in Health Science, Engineering,
IT, Business, Law, Architecture, Arts and Design, Media, Education and Political Science. Honoris United Universities. Education for Impact™. www.honoris.net