Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Photo: Martin Wegmann Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  A suspected attack by Jihadists on a gold mining site in Burkina Faso left at least 20 people dead on Friday. The incident is the latest example of escalating militancy in West Africa’s Sahel region, coming in the same week as an attack on two army camps in neighbouring Mali, leaving 28 soldiers dead. Brazen attacks like this come despite years of efforts to curb regional instability. The focus has been the G5 Sahel, an initiative launched in 2014 to strengthen cooperation between Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger. This includes the creation of a UN-backed task force. Last month leaders from across West Africa pledged $1 billion in funding from 2020 – 2024 to support counter-terrorism efforts. All of this is “falling short” of what’s needed, the UN has warned, with Secretary-General António Guterres recently calling for “urgent mobilisation to support countries and people of the Sahel.” It’s hard to argue with the assessment. In addition to rising violence, the region faces chronic underdevelopment, made worse by accelerating climate change. This year alone 5.1 million people will need humanitarian assistance. There is potential for wider destabilisation, with growing concerns that the violence could spill over into important coastal economies like Nigeria, Ghana, and Côte d’Ivoire. As things stand, the world is short on answers to the Sahel’s problems. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Egypt has said talks over the operation of the $4 billion Grand Renaissance Dam being constructed on the Nile by Ethiopia have reached a deadlock, blaming Addis Ababa for the impasse and calling for international mediation. Ethiopian officials have dismissed the claim as “completely false”, saying some progress has been made. More: Al Jazeera A Cameroonian military court has ordered the release of main opposition leader Maurice Kamto, in prison for nine months, as part of government-led talks aimed at quelling a separatist movement in the country’s minority English-speaking regions. This has been met with a violent crackdown by the government of president Paul Biya, who has ruled Cameroon for 37 years. More: France 24 The global perspective Oil Major ExxonMobil will this week sign off on an initial investment decision for a $27 billion – $33 billion liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in Mozambique, the country’s government has said. Another $20 billion LNG project is under development by Total – the investments are expected to transform Mozambique’s $15 billion economy. More: Bloomberg The EU will reportedly evaluate a major review of how the bloc deploys development assistance this week. This is said to include an option making the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) its external development bank, with a primary focus on Africa. More: Reuters Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 