Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Tanzania has issued a strict set of conditions for a planned $10 billion, Chinese-funded port in the town of Bagamoyo, near the commercial capital Dar es Salaam. This includes the removal of planned tax breaks and other financial incentives. It could spell the end for the Belt and Road project, agreed in 2015 with promises of turning Tanzania into a trade hub. Trouble began when president John Magufuli took office in late 2015, criticising the project terms as “exploitative”. It was indefinitely suspended in June, and the new demands are effectively an ultimatum. The take it or leave it approach goes against the conventional wisdom that African countries are largely passive actors in China’s grand scheme for dominance on the continent. This ignores their agency in signing deals, and the responsibility to ensure these are in line with development needs. Turning down projects that aren’t is just common sense. Tanzania is not the first to do so. Last year Sierra Leone cancelled a $400 million airport project with Beijing after deeming it “uneconomical”. In short, just because China is selling something, you don’t have to buy it. This also applies to Africa’s steadily growing list of would-be suitors, bringing with them big cheques and bigger promises. Let’s hope African governments are familiar with the Latin term caveat emptor – let the buyer beware. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Mozambique’s electoral commission has said results from general elections last week will be announced on October 30. Incumbent president Filipe Nyusi and his ruling Frelimo party are expected to comfortably win the polls, amid allegations of widespread ballot fraud by the opposition. More: News 24 The leader of South Africa’s main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) party, Mmusi Maimane, has resigned citing difficulties in efforts to broaden its traditionally white liberal base. This comes days after another senior DA figure, Herman Mashaba, resigned as mayor of Johannesburg over its stance on racial inequality. More: Al Jazeera The global perspective Russia’s Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, and London-based investment firm Gemcorp Capital have signed a $5 billion agreement to support trade finance between Russia and African economies. The deal was announced during the first major Russia-Africa summit being taking place in Sochi this week. More: Reuters Millennium Challenge Corporation, the US aid agency, has cut $190 million in funding for Ghana’s energy sector following the cancellation of a 20-year operating contract for its struggling state-owned power utility with Manila-based power distribution company Meralco. Ghana’s government has said it intends to seek a new private sector partner despite the decision. More: Bloomberg Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 