  Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development.  Rwanda has opened what is being billed as Africa’s ‘first entirely homemade’ smartphone factory. The facility, run by Kigali-based Mara Phones, will produce up to 1,200 units per day, with two models costing around $130 and $200 respectively. The ambition is to break into Africa’s growing mobile device market, which saw 88.2 million smartphones shipped in 2018. This is dominated by Korea’s Samsung and Chinese manufacturers like Huawei and Transsion. Often lamented as a missed opportunity to boost local manufacturing, reinforcing Africa’s dependence on goods made elsewhere, this has spurred various efforts to break the monopoly of international companies. This includes Republic of Congo’s VMK, South Africa’s io, and Johannesburg-based startup Onyx Connect. Last year Kenya launched a $10 million fund aimed at doing the same. None have made meaningful inroads – for good reason. As frustrating as foreign control of the market may be, Africa is no exception. Europe’s handset market, for example, is dominated by Samsung, Apple, and Huawei, accounting for around 75% of devices shipped. Homegrown manufacturers are negligible. Unable to compete on price – Samsung sells smartphones in Rwanda starting at $54 – or scale, it’s hard to see how Africa can buck the trend. If there’s a case to buy ‘made in Africa’ smartphones over those shipped from Korea or China, it’s largely sentimental. This report reflects the views of the author alone, not those of How we made it in Africa. From the continent Ethiopia has accused Egypt of trying to retain ‘colonial era’ control of the Nile Basin in a growing diplomatic disagreement over its $4 billion Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. Tensions over the project, which could see Ethiopia become a major regional power exporter, have stifled its development since construction began in 2011. More: Reuters Nigeria’s president Muhammadu Buhari has presented a record $33.8 billion budget to lawmakers for 2020, up from $24 billion the previous year. This comes amid concerns about a looming fiscal crisis in Africa’s biggest economy. More: Reuters The global perspective Indian mobile operator Airtel’s African unit has announced a digital payments partnership with Mastercard. The deal will allow users in 14 African markets to access the company’s global network. More: Hindu Business Line An Al Qaeda affiliated group has claimed responsibility for attacks on two army bases in Mali last week that left 38 soldiers dead. This is part of surging Islamist militancy in West Africa’s Sahel region. More: Euronews Sign up and join thousands of professionals who receive the Nurmara Daily Brief e-mail – an indispensable, no-nonsense take on Africa-related business, policy and development. 